# Data Structure
## Linear Data Structure
1. Array
2. LinkedList
3. Stacks
4. Queues
5. Hashing
## Non-Linear Data Structure
1. Trees
2. Graphs
### Trees
- Tree is a data structure consist of nodes connected by edges. 
- Tree terminology
  1. Root Node - The node at the top of the tree.
  2. Edge - The line that acts as a link between two nodes.
  3. Parent - The node that is a predecessor of any node.
  4. Child - The node that is descendent of any node.
  5. Sibling - The nodes that are connected to same parent node.
  6. Leaf - The node with no child node/s.
  7. Internal node - The nodes that have atleast one child.
  8. Degree - The no.of child nodes to a parent node.
  9. Level - The level is from 0 to n which is caluclated based on root node as we step down from root node the level increases.
  10. Height - The height is from 0 to n which is calculated based on leaf node to any particular node.
  11. Depth - The depth tells about the total number of edges from root node to a particular node.
  12. Path - The path tells us how to reach from one node to other node.
  13. Sub tree - The sub tree are trees but they are not complete trees. The sub-trees are part of the tree.
#### Types of Trees:
1. Binary Trees
2. Binary Search Trees
3. AVL Tree(self - balancing tree)
4. N - any Tree
1. Binary Tree
   - In binary tree, the tree can have zero or one or two children.
   - There are different types of binary tree and they are
   - Binary Tree Traversals
   - 1. In - Order Traversal(Left - Root - Right)
   - 2. Pre - Order Traversal(Root - Left - Right)
   - 3. Post - Order Traversal(Right - Left - Root)
   - 4. Level Order Traversal(BFS)
   - Applications:
   - 1. File System: N- any Tree
   - 2. Database: AVL Tree, B-Tree and Red & Black Tree
   - 3. Searching and Sorting: Binary Search Tree
   - 4. Networking
   - 5. Compilers and Interpreter
   - 6. Artificial Intelligence
   - 7. Web Technologies
   - 8. Operating System
   - 9. Expression Evaluation
   - 10. Version Control System
2. Binary Search Tree
   - Binary Search Tree is a very efficient tree, where the left node is smaller than the parent node and right node is larger than the parent node.
   - We can perform operations like insert, deletion, sorting with order of nlog(n) time complexity.
3. AVL Tree
   - AVL tree is a self-balancing binary search tree where difference between heights of left sub tree and right sub-tree is atmost even. We call this has balance factor.