# Queue
## Queue Types
1. Queue
2. Circular Queue
3. Priority Queue
# Graphs
- A Graph is a nodes(vertices) that are connected by edges but not in hierarchy.
## Graphs Types
1. Undirected graph
   - The graphs that doesn't contain any directions or relation between two nodes.
   -  ```mermaid
      graph RL;
        A<-->B;
        A<-->C;
        B<-->D;
        C<-->D;
   ```
2. Directed graph
   - The graphs that does contain any direction or relation between two nodes.
3. Weighted graph
   - The graph whose edges are provided with a weight.
4. Unweighted graph
   - The graph whose edges are provided without a weight.
5. Connected graph
   - The graph in which whose all nodes are connected to each other.
6. Unconnected graph
   - The graph in which atleast one node is not connected to the graph.
7. Cyclic graph
   - The graph in which all the nodes are connected to form a circle.
8. Acyclic graph
   - The graph in which all nodes are connected but doesn't form a circle.
## Graph Creation
- Graphs are created by two ways
  1. Adjacency matrix
  2. Adjacency list
## Types of Traversal
1. BFS
2. DFS

# Two Pointer Approach
- The two-pointers technique uses two indices to solve problems on arrays, strings, or linkedlist.
- This pointers typically move each other are in same direction, most suitable for sorted elements.
1. Moves toward each-other(left to right)
   - Similar to binary search approach
2. Slow & fast pointer(tortoise & hare) - Floyd's 
   - When we the condition is not met the slow and fast pointers are incremented, but slow is incremented by one value where fast pointer is incremented by two values. It is used for linkedlist.
3. In-same direction(sliding window)
   - The sliding window is a window based technique used to get output on arrays and string in linear type.
   - The sliding window types
      1. Fixed size of window
         - The window assume a size of n where we sum the values in the window, after completing the sum we will increase the index by one. We return the highest sum value from the windows.
      2. Variable size
         - The size of n will increase when a condition is true but when the condition fail we need to reduce the window size to perform sliding window.






































